Ti=General Provisions

sec=</u><ol><li>{Waive.Sec}</li><li>{Entire.Sec}</li><li>{Sever.Sec}</li><li>{Amend.Sec}</li><li>{Law.Sec}</li><li>{Notice.Sec}</li><li>{Assign.Sec}</li><li>{AbideMaterialsLaw.Sec}</li><li>{AbideUSLaw.Sec}</li><li>{PatentMarking.Sec}</li><li>{Disclaim.Licensor.Endorse.Sec}</li><li>{Dispute.Sec}</li><li>{Disclaim.AntitrustImmunity.Sec}</li><li>{RecordAgreement.Sec}</li><li>{Survive.Sec}</li><li>{P2TimeToSign.Sec}</li></ol>

Waive.Sec=<u>Waiver</u><br> Neither party may waive or release any of its rights or interests in this Agreement except in writing.  The failure of the Government to assert a right hereunder or to insist upon compliance with any term or condition of this Agreement shall not constitute a waiver of that right by the Government or excuse a similar subsequent failure to perform any of these terms or conditions by the Licensee.

Entire.Sec=<u>Entire Agreement</u><br> This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties relating to the subject matter of the Licensed Patent Rights, the Licensed Products and the Licensed Processes, and all prior negotiations, representations, agreements, and understandings are merged into, extinguished by, and completely expressed by this Agreement.

Sever.Sec=<u>Severable</u><br> The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and in the event that any provision of this Agreement shall be determined to be invalid or unenforceable under any controlling body of law, this determination shall not in any way affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement.

Amend.Sec=<u>Amendment</u><br> If either party desires a modification to this Agreement, the parties shall, upon reasonable notice of the proposed modification by the party desiring the change, confer in good faith to determine the desirability of the modification.  No modification shall be effective until a written amendment is signed by the signatories to this Agreement or their designees.

Law.Sec=<u>Law</u><br> The construction, validity, performance, and effect of this Agreement shall be governed by Federal law as applied by the Federal courts in the District of Columbia.

Notice.Sec=<u>Notices</u><br> All Agreement notices required or permitted by this Agreement shall be given by prepaid, first class, registered or certified mail or by an express/overnight delivery service provided by a commercial carrier, properly addressed to the other party at the address designated on the following Signature Page, or to another address as may be designated in writing by the other party. Agreement notices shall be considered timely if the notices are received on or before the established deadline date or sent on or before the deadline date as verifiable by U.S. Postal Service postmark or dated receipt from a commercial carrier.  Parties should request a legibly dated U.S. Postal Service postmark or obtain a dated receipt from a commercial carrier or the U.S. Postal Service.  Private metered postmarks shall not be acceptable as proof of timely mailing.

Assign.Sec=<u>Assignment</u><br> This Agreement shall not be assigned or otherwise transferred (including any transfer by legal process or by operation of law, and any transfer in bankruptcy or insolvency, or in any other compulsory procedure or order of court) except to the Licensee’s Affiliate(s) without the prior written consent of the {P1.Handle}.  The parties agree that the identity of the parties is material to the formation of this Agreement and that the obligations under this Agreement are nondelegable.  In the event that the {P1.Handle} approves a proposed assignment, the Licensee shall pay the {P1.Handle}, as an additional royalty, one percent (1%) of the fair market value of any consideration received for any assignment of this Agreement within sixty (60) days of the assignment.

AbideMaterialsLaw.Sec=<u>Legal Use of Materials</u><br> The Licensee agrees in its use of any {P1.Handle}-supplied materials to comply with all applicable statutes, regulations, and guidelines, including {P1.Handle} and HHS regulations and guidelines.  The Licensee agrees not to use the materials for research involving human subjects or clinical trials in the United States without complying with 21 C.F.R. Part 50 and 45 C.F.R. Part 46.  The Licensee agrees not to use the materials for research involving human subjects or clinical trials outside of the United States without notifying the {P1.Handle}, in writing, of the research or trials and complying with the applicable regulations of the appropriate national control authorities.  Written notification to the {P1.Handle} of research involving human subjects or clinical trials outside of the United States shall be given no later than sixty (60) days prior to commencement of the research or trials.

AbideUSLaw.Sec=<u>Compliance with US Law</u><br> The Licensee acknowledges that it is subject to and agrees to abide by the United States laws and regulations (including the Export Administration Act of 1979 and Arms Export Control Act) controlling the export of technical data, computer software, laboratory prototypes, biological material, and other commodities.  The transfer of these items may require a license from the appropriate agency of the U.S. Government or written assurances by the Licensee that it shall not export these items to certain foreign countries without prior approval of this agency.  The {P1.Handle} neither represents that a license is or is not required or that, if required, it shall be issued.

PatentMarking.Sec=<u>Patent Marking</u><br> The Licensee agrees to mark the Licensed Products or their packaging sold in the United States with all applicable U.S. patent numbers and similarly to indicate "Patent Pending" status.  All the Licensed Products manufactured in, shipped to, or sold in other countries shall be marked in a manner to preserve the {P1.Handle}’s patent rights in those countries.

Disclaim.Licensor.Endorse.Sec=<u>Disclaim Endorsement</u><br> By entering into this Agreement, the {P1.Handle} does not directly or indirectly endorse any product or service provided, or to be provided, by the Licensee whether directly or indirectly related to this Agreement.  The Licensee shall not state or imply that this Agreement is an endorsement by the Government, the {P1.Handle}, any other Government organizational unit, or any Government employee.  Additionally, the Licensee shall not use the names of the {P1.Handle}, the FDA or the HHS or the Government or their employees in any advertising, promotional, or sales literature without the prior written approval of the {P1.Handle}.

Dispute.Sec=<u>Dispute Resolution</u><br> The parties agree to attempt to settle amicably any controversy or claim arising under this Agreement or a breach of this Agreement, except for appeals of modifications or termination decisions provided for in Article 13.  The Licensee agrees first to appeal any unsettled claims or controversies to the designated the {P1.Handle} official, or designee, whose decision shall be considered the final agency decision.  Thereafter, the Licensee may exercise any administrative or judicial remedies that may be available.

Disclaim.AntitrustImmunity.Sec=<u>No Antitrust Immunity</u><br> Nothing relating to the grant of a license, nor the grant itself, shall be construed to confer upon any person any immunity from or defenses under the antitrust laws or from a charge of patent misuse, and the acquisition and use of rights pursuant to 37 C.F.R. Part 404 shall not be immunized from the operation of state or Federal law by reason of the source of the grant.

RecordAgreement.Sec=<u>Recording of Agreement</u><br> Any formal recordation of this Agreement required by the laws of any Licensed Territory as a prerequisite to enforceability of the Agreement in the courts of any foreign jurisdiction or for other reasons shall be carried out by the Licensee at its expense, and appropriately verified proof of recordation shall be promptly furnished to the {P1.Handle}.

Survive.Sec=<u>Survival</u><br> Paragraphs {Survive.Xrefs} of this Agreement shall survive termination of this Agreement.

Survive.Xrefs=4.3, 8.1, 9.5-9.8, 12.1-12.5, 13.9, 13.10, 14.12 and 14.15

P2TimeToSign.Sec=<u>Time to Sign</u><br> The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall, at the {P1.Handle}’s sole option, be considered by the {P1.Handle} to be withdrawn from the Licensee’s consideration and the terms and conditions of this Agreement, and the Agreement itself to be null and void, unless this Agreement is executed by the Licensee and a fully executed original is received by the {P1.Handle} within sixty (60) days from the date of the {P1.Handle}’s signature found at the Signature Page.

P2TimeToSign.Xnum={Xnum}.16

=[Z/Sec/0]
